= Introduction =

Simplenlg is a simple Java API designed to facilitate the generation of Natural Language. It was originally developed at the [http://www.csd.abdn.ac.uk University of Aberdeen's Department of Computing Science].

Simplenlg is intended to function as a "realisation engine" for Natural Language Generation architectures, and has been used successfully in a number of projects, including [http://www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/research/babytalk/ the BabyTalk Project]. 

For details of its design and examples of its use, please refer to the following publication:

  * A. Gatt and E. Reiter. (2009). [http://aclweb.org/anthology-new/W/W09/W09-0613.pdf SimpleNLG: A realisation engine for practical applications]. Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation (ENLG-09).

The above paper is also the best academic citation for simplenlg. 

= Version history and hosting =
SimpleNLG is currently hosted on Google Code.

Earlier versions of simplenlg can be found on
[http://www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/research/simplenlg/]; these are no longer beinf maintained.  Please note that earlier versions of simplenlg have different licensing, in particular versions before V4.0 cannot be used commercially.


= Summary of features =
SimpleNLG handles the following:

  * Lexicon/morphology system: The default lexicon computes inflected forms (morphological realisation). We believe this has fair coverage.  Better coverage can be obtained by using the [http://lexsrv3.nlm.nih.gov/LexSysGroup/Projects/lexicon/current/web NIH Specialist Lexicon] (which is supported by simplenlg).
  * Realiser: Generates texts from a syntactic form. Grammatical coverage is very limited compared to tools such as KPML and FUF/SURGE, but we believe it is adequate for many NLG tasks.
  * Microplanning: Currently just simple aggregation, hopefully will grow over time. 