#summary simplenlg and Eclipse

= simplenlg and Eclipse =

*Setting up simplenlg in Eclipse:*
If you are using Eclipse to write your Java programs, you would

 #. create a new Project (File>New>Project)
 # add the simplenlg library to the project’s build path by doing the following:
  * go to the Eclipse menu and select Project>Properties>Java Build Path
  * click on the Libraries tab
  * click on the *Add External jars...* button
  * browse to the simplenlg jar file which you downloaded from the web
  * select the simplenlg jar file and click *Open*
  * click *OK*
 # In the project, create a new class which has the main method in it. In this example, let’s call the new class {{{TestMain}}}. 
 # At the top of the class, put in the following import statements:
{{{
    import simplenlg.features.*;
    import simplenlg.realiser.*;
}}}

Following these steps, you should have code that looks like the following:

{{{
        import simplenlg.features.*;
        import simplenlg.realiser.*;

        public class TestMain {

	        /**
        	 * @param args
	         */
        	public static void main(String[] args) {
	        	// TODO Auto-generated method stub

        	}        

        }
}}}

*Using source code*
If you are using the source code of the simplenlg you need to set up several things.

 #. create a new Project (File>New>Project)
 # add the additional libraries to the project’s build path by doing the following:
  * go to the Eclipse menu and select Project>Properties>Java Build Path
  * click on the Libraries tab
  * click on the *Add External jars* button
  * browse to the {{{simplenlg/lib}}} folder and select all jar files
  * click *Open*
  * click *OK
 # add the simplenlg source code to your project
 * open the project properties again and click on the *sources* tab.
 * click on the *Link Source...* button and add the path to the {{{simplenlg/src}}} folder and into the folder name type simplenlg.
 * click *finish* and then *OK*.
# In the project, create a new class which has the main method in it. In this example, let’s call the new class {{{TestMain}}}. 
 # At the top of the class, put in the following import statements:
{{{
    import simplenlg.features.*;
    import simplenlg.realiser.*;
}}}

Following these steps, you should have code that looks like the following:

{{{
        import simplenlg.features.*;
        import simplenlg.realiser.*;

        public class TestMain {

	        /**
        	 * @param args
	         */
        	public static void main(String[] args) {
	        	// TODO Auto-generated method stub

        	}        

        }
}}}

There should be two folders in your project. The folder {{{src}}} for your code and folder {{{simplenlg}}} that contains the simplenlg source code. 

You should be now ready to start implementing your own classes that use simplenlg.