#summary Verbs

= Verbs =
Verbs should be specified in infinitive ("to XXX") form. However, as a convenience, simplenlg will usually accept inflected forms of verbs as well.  For example,
{{{
	p.setVerb("is");
}}}
is equivalent to
{{{
	p.setVerb("be");
}}}

You can specify particles (prepositions which accompany a verb) by writing the following:
{{{
	p.setVerb("pick up");
	p.setVerb("put down");
}}}

Verbs in simplenlg can have one of three different tenses: past, present and future. Let’s say we’ve written the following simplenlg code which yields the sentence "Mary chases George":
{{{
	SPhraseSpec p = nlgFactory.createClause();
	p.setSubject("Mary");
	p.setVerb("chase");
	p.setObject("George");
}}}

In order to set this in the past, we would add the line:
{{{
	p.setFeature(Feature.TENSE, Tense.PAST);
}}}
thus rendering the sentence:
 {{{Mary chased George.}}}

If Mary is instead busy with other things and forced to postpone her exercise, we could write:
{{{
	p.setFeature(Feature.TENSE, Tense.FUTURE);
}}}
yielding the sentence:
 {{{Mary will chase George.}}}


*Negation*
If negated is set to true, the negative form of the sentence is produced. For example adding the following line to the previous:
{{{
	p.setFeature(Feature.NEGATED, true);
}}}
will change the resulting sentence to:
 {{{Mary will not chase George.}}}


*Questions*
Simplenlg can generate simple yes/no questions.  For example:
{{{
	p.setSubject("Mary");
	p.setVerb("chase");
	p.setObject("George");
	p.setFeature(Feature.INTERROGATIVE_TYPE, InterrogativeType.YES_NO);
}}}
will generate:
 {{{Does Mary chase George?}}}

Simplenlg can also generate simple WH questions.  For example:
{{{
	p.setSubject("Mary");
	p.setVerb("chase");
	p.setFeature(Feature.INTERROGATIVE_TYPE, InterrogativeType.WHO_OBJECT);
}}}
will generate:
 {{{Who does Mary chase?}}}


*Features*
TENSE, NEGATED, and INTERROGATIVE_TYPE are examples of _features_ which can be set on a SPhraseSpec. Many other features are also allowed, including MODAL, PASSIVE, PERFECT, and PROGRESSIVE. Detailed information about allowable features are given in the Java API documentation.