#summary What are complements?

= What are complements? =
As far as simplenlg is concerned, a complement is anything that comes immediately after the verb. When you label something as a complement and hand it to simplenlg to be realized, simplenlg will place it, no matter what it is, after the verb1. 

Examples of complements are underlined in the sentences below:
 # John is happy.
 # John wrote quickly.
 # John just realized that his holidays are over.

The underlined words and phrases in the examples above are all different parts of speech. In example #1, it’s an adjective; in example #2 it's an adverb, and it’s a ‘that-clause’ in example #3. But from simplenlg’s point of view, the underlined bits are none of these things: they are simply complements because they all appear after the verb. Although it has a (very basic) understanding of verbs, noun phrases, and prepositional phrases, simplenlg has no concept of adjectives, adverbs, that-clauses or other parts of speech that can appear after a verb. But it does understand the concept of a complement and because of this, parts of speech which appear after a verb can be generated using the simplenlg library.

|| _*Phrase Type*_ || _*Examples*_ ||
|| *Noun Phrase* || "an apple" ||
|| *Prepositional Phrase* || "in the park" ||
|| *Verb* || "chase" ||
|| Verb Phrase || "play the piano" ||
|| Adjective Phrase || "delighted to meet you" ||
|| Adverb Phrase || "very quickly" ||

*Table 1*: simplenlg can explicitly handle noun phrase, prepositional phrase and verb. The concepts of adjective phrase and adverb phrase, however, fall under the headers ‘complement’ or ‘modifier’.

Note that only things of type {{{SPhraseSpec}}} can take a complement.